+++
# Date this page was created.
date = "2018-05-06"

# Project title.
title = "Interpolating ship paths in the Port of Metro Vancouver."

# Project summary to display on homepage.
summary = """
Cameron Wallace  
SNC-Lavalin Inc.
"""

# Optional image to display on homepage (relative to `static/img/` folder).
image_preview = "proj/snc/marinetraffic.png"

# Tags: can be used for filtering projects.
# Example: `tags = ["machine-learning", "predictive", "analytics"]`
tags = ["machine-learning", "inference", "interpolation", "cleaning", "modelling"]

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link = ""

# Does the project detail page use math formatting?
math = false

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = "posts/generic-41.jpg"
caption = "Port of Metro Vancouver Geomatics"

+++


### Mentor: Cameron Wallace

## Summary

As part of a study for the Port Authority of Vancouver, cargo ship positions
reported by their navigation systems were considered. These discrete positions
were pieced together into full ship routes which were then used to estimate the
amount and distribution of pollution generated by cargo traffic through the port
of Vancouver. In the original study, there was difficulty handling missing or
erroneous position data. This project is to improve the reconstruction process
of ship routes. Specifically, the problem is to look through the data to find
all the records for a particular ship over a ten day period, and:

* generate a route map for the ship over that ten day period;

* identify when there is bad data for the ship and correct it so that the
  resulting route map is as close as possible to what it should be;

* for bonus marks, make sure the routes don’t go over land (find open data to
  describe the coastline in polygons, and incorporate it).

Alternatively, identify characteristics that might flag "good" data vs. "bad"
data (i.e. speed variations), and identify ways to systematically correct for
bad data without minimum variation of the route. Identify the number of trips
that would be caught and fixed with the methods.


## About SNC-Lavalin

Founded in 1911, [SNC-Lavalin](http://www.snclavalin.com/en/) is a global fully
integrated professional services and project management company and a major
player in the ownership of infrastructure. Our teams provide solutions in
capital investment, consulting, design, engineering, construction, sustaining
capital and operations and maintenance in many fields.